---
layout: post
title:  "Mac SIP"
desc: "Mac SIP"
keywords: "Mac SIP"
date:   2016-08-04
categories: [Mac]
tags: [Mac,SIP]
icon: fa-apple
---

# Mac

Turning Off Rootless System Integrity Protection in OS X El Capitan 10.11 +
Again, the vast majority of Mac users should not disable rootless. Disabling rootless is aimed exclusively at advanced Mac users. Do so at your own risk, this is not specifically recommended.

1	Reboot the Mac and hold down Command + R keys simultaneously after you hear the startup chime, this will boot OS X into Recovery Mode
2  	When the “OS X Utilities” screen appears, pull down the ‘Utilities’ menu at the top of the screen instead, and choose “Terminal”
3  	Type the following command into the terminal then hit return:
   	csrutil disable; reboot

4  	You’ll see a message saying that System Integrity Protection has been disabled and the Mac needs to restart for changes to take effect, and the Mac will then reboot itself automatically, just let it boot up as normal

	You can also issue the command by itself without the automatic reboot like so:

	csrutil disable

	By the way, if you’re interested in disabling rootless, you may also want to disable Gatekeeper while you’re in the command line too.

	If you plan on doing something else in the Terminal or OS X Utilities screen you may want to leave off the auto-reboot command at the end, and yes, in case you were wondering, this is the same recovery mode used to reinstall OS X with Internet Recovery.

	Once the Mac boots up again, System Integrity Protection will be disabled entirely in OS X.

	Checking the Status of Rootless / System Integrity Protection in OS X
	If you want to know the status of rootless before rebooting or without rebooting the Mac into recovery mode, just issue the following command into the Terminal:

	csrutil status

	You’ll either see one of two messages, enabled indi:

	$ csrutil status
	System Integrity Protection status: enabled.

	or

	$ csrutil status
	System Integrity Protection status: disabled

	If at any time you wish to change the status of rootless, another reboot into Recovery Mode is required.

	How to Re-Enable Rootless System Integrity Protection in OS X
	Simply reboot the Mac again into Recovery Mode as directed above, but at the command line use the following syntax instead:

	csrutil enable

	Just as before, a reboot of the Mac is required for changes to take effect.

	As previously stated, the vast majority of Mac users should leave rootless enabled and embrace System Integrity Protection, as most OS X users have no business in the system level directories anyway. Adjusting this feature is really aimed at advanced Mac users, whether IT, sysadmins, network administrators, developers, tinkerers, security operations, and other related highly technical fields.
	
	
	
SIP INFO
	System Integrity Protection restricts the root account and limits the actions that the root user can perform on protected parts of OS X.

Paths and applications protected by System Integrity Protection include:

```
/System
/usr
/bin
/sbin
```
Apps that are pre-installed with OS X
Paths and applications that third-party apps and installers can write to include:

```
/Applications
/Library
/usr/local
```

